Title:	Skills lecture for 2016-11-17
Date:	2016-11-17
Base Header Level:	2  
latex mode:	article  
Keywords:	MultiMarkdown, Markdown, XML, XHTML, XSLT, PDF   
copyright:	2016 James A. Foster  
	This work is licensed under a Creative Commons License.  
	http: //creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/  
htmlheader:	<script type="text/javascript" async src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-MML-AM_CHTML"></script>
latex input:	mmd-natbib-plain
latex input:	mmd-article-begin-doc  
latex footer:	mmd-article-footer  

# Notes for 2016-11-17 #

## Objectives ##
Introduction to Matplotlib and Pandas plotting.
## Read ##
Chapter 8 in book.
## Pandas Plots ##
Pandas has plot methods that pass information from a Series or DataFrame to matplotlib. There are matplotlib functions that do these things (as above), too. These typically return a matplotlib object. This combines a lot of the stuff above into one step.

Since pandas passes through to matplotlib, you can work directly with figure or subplot objects, and most of the same parameters work (for decorations and formatting, for example).

use *dataFrame.plot( kind='**kind**')*, where **kind** is the kind of plot to make. This way, you only need to know one plot command!

		DataFrame.plot?
		
###setup
		import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
		from numpy.random import randn
		import pandas as pd
		from pandas import DataFrame, Series

		hiSeq = pd.read_table( 'sequence_summary_headers.txt', comment='#' )
		hiSeq.describe( include='all' )
		deciles = []
		for i in arange(0,1,0.1):
			deciles.append( hiSeq.gcContent.quantile( i ) )
		deciles = Series( deciles )

####figures and axes
Create figure and subplot objects the same way as with matplotlib (since pandas plotting calls just pass through to matplotlib): *plt.subplots(x,y)* to create a figure with *xy* subplots in *x* rows and *y* columns, returning a tuple with the figure and a list of the axes.

		fig, axes = plt.subplots(2,2)

When doing the plotting, I prefer to explicitly say which subplot I am using in the plotting calls itself, via the *ax=* parameter. After all,

>explicit is better than implicit (Zen of Python)

### Line Plots (as in plt.plot()) ###

		ax = axes[0,0]

		x = deciles.plot( ax=ax ) # or plot( kind='line' )
		type(x)

### Bar Plots (as in plt.bar()) ###

		x = deciles.plot( ax=ax, kind='bar', color='lightgreen', )

		ax = axes[0,1]

		x = deciles.plot( ax=ax, kind='barh', color='yellow' )

### Histograms ###

		ax = axes[1,0]

		x = hiSeq['gcContent'].plot( 
			ax=ax,
			kind='hist',
			bins=50, 
			color='darkgray', 
			)

### Scatter Plots ###
		hiSeq['random'] = permutation(hiSeq.gcContent)
		
		ax = axes[1,1]

		hiSeq.plot( 'gcContent', 'random', 
			ax=ax,
			kind='scatter',
			title='GC versus Random' 
			)
		
### Cleanup and save to a file ###
Clean up margins and save using the figure object directly.

Clean up layout (easier than messing with borders, as in book)

		fig.tight_layout()

But doesn't work in a program, just in ipython. Mac OSX bug. Instead, if you are saving to a file, use

		fig.set_tight_layout(True)

save to file:

		fig.savefig('classEG.png')
		fig.savefig('classEG.pdf')


## Conclusion ##

be sure to check out [Matplotlib Gallery](http://matplotlib.org/gallery.html) at *http://matplotlib.org/gallery.html*
