Title:	Skills lecture for 2016-11-15
Date:	2016-11-15
Base Header Level:	2  
latex mode:	article  
Keywords:	MultiMarkdown, Markdown, XML, XHTML, XSLT, PDF   
copyright:	2016 James A. Foster  
	This work is licensed under a Creative Commons License.  
	http: //creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0/  
htmlheader:	<script type="text/javascript" async src="https://cdn.mathjax.org/mathjax/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-MML-AM_CHTML"></script>
latex input:	mmd-natbib-plain
latex input:	mmd-article-begin-doc  
latex footer:	mmd-article-footer  

# Notes for 2016-11-15 #

## Objectives ##
Introduction to Matplotlib and Pandas plotting.
## Read ##
Chapter 8 in book.
## Python ##

### Setup ###

		ipython --pyplot

		import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
		from numpy.random import randn
		import pandas as pd
		from pandas import DataFrame, Series

		hiSeq = pd.read_table( 'sequence_summary_headers.txt', comment='#' )
		hiSeq.describe( include='all' )
		
On jupyter, use %matplotlib magic (I think)
###figures and axes
*Figure* objects contain one or more *Axes* objects, also called "subplots" (to enable multiple plots on one figure). Two ways to set them up:

1. create the figure with *plt.figure()*, then add axes to figure with that figure's method, *fig.add_subplot(x,y,z)* (*x,y,z* are the number of rows and columns, and which you are creating with this call)
2. (Recommended) use *plt.subplots(x,y)* to create a figure with *xy* subplots in *x* rows and *y* columns, returning a tuple with the figure and a list of the axes.

		fig, axes = plt.subplots(2,3)
		fig
		axes
		fig.show()

I prefer this so one can refer to each axes with indexes:

		thisAxis = axes[1,1]
		thisAxis.plot(randn(50).cumsum())
		thisAxis.plot(randn(50).cumsum())

Note types of these objects. In particular, *axes* is an array of subplots.
### Matplotlib Plots ###
*thisAxis.\<tab\>* to see options.

		thisAxis.plot?
		thisAxis.hist?
		thisAxis.scatter?

Not the many options to set and get parameters. 

		thisAxis.set\<tab\>
		thisAxis.get\<get\>

Plot methods return a plot object. It makes sense to keep this, so you can set parameters differently for each subplot.

		thisAxis = axes[0,0]
		theseLines = thisAxis.plot(randn(50).cumsum())
		thoseLines = thisAxis.plot(randn(50).cumsum())
		thisLine = theseLines[0]
		thatLine = thoseLines[0]

		thisLine.\<tab\>

		thisLine.get_color()
		thisLine.set_color('black')		# or 'k'
		thatLine.set_color('g')		# or 'green'

To change parameters of any matplot lib object (figures, subplots, lines, text, ticks, labels, etc.), look for the right *set_parameter* method.

Or set them when you create them.

		thisAxis = axes[0,1]
		thisAxis.plot(randn(50).cumsum(), 'y^')
		thisAxis.plot(randn(50).cumsum(), 
			color='darkgray', 
			label='LINE ONE', 
			linewidth=2,
			linestyle=':', 
			)

### Decorations and layout ###

		fig, axes = plt.subplots(2,2)
		ax = axes[0,0]
		gcContent = sort( hiSeq['gcContent'] )
		ax.plot(gcContent)

		ax = axes[0,1]
		ax.plot( gcContent, label='raw value', )
		ax.plot( 
			sort(random_sample( len( gcContent )) ), 
			label = 'random', 
			)

		ax.hlines( 
			gcContent.mean(), 0, len( gcContent ), 
			color='red', 
			linestyle='dashed', 
			label='mean gcContent',
			)

Add tick labels and properties

		ax.get_xticks()
		labels = ax.set_xticklabels(
			[0, 300, 600, 900, 1200, 1500, 1800, 2100, 2400, 2700], 
			rotation=45, 
			fontsize='medium',
			color='darkred',
			)

Add axis labels and properties

		ax.set_xlabel( 'sequence number', fontsize='medium', )
		ax.set_ylabel( 'GC content', fontsize='medium', )
		ax.set_title( 'GC content summary', fontsize='x-large', ) 

Add legends, annotation, and properties

		ax.legend(loc='best')

Add text (can also add shapes as in book)		

		ax.annotate( 'gc=cumRand', xy=(700, 0.35), rotation=-45, )

### Cleanup and save to a file ###

Clean up layout (easier than messing with borders, as in book)

		fig.tight_layout()

But doesn't work in a program, just in ipython. Mac OSX bug. Instead, if you are saving to a file, use

		fig.set_tight_layout(True)

save to file:

		fig.savefig('classEG.png')
		fig.savefig('classEG.pdf')
